1. Javascript library for building fast and interative UI
2. Developed by Facebok in 2011
3. React is the viewlayer of MVC application (model view controller)
4. Component based: Build encapsulated components that manage their own state, then compose
them to make complex UIs.

what is this mvc architecture?
MVC stand for Model-View Controller its is the design pattern which seperate the application into three mian logical components:
Model, View and Controller, 
Each pattern is responible to handle some specific functionality for an application.
It actually isolate the business logic and presentation layer from each other.
it is used for GUI also now a days used for web development and app development projects.

The main goal is to solve the design data set problem for users to controle the complex data 
rather it split the application into specific sections.

1. CONTROLLER:
It enable the interconnection between views and model also controller don't have to worry about the 
data logic handling process it just have to tell teh responsibility of model and give the input.
After that ask the view to dsplay the output on the screen.

2.VIEW:
View is responible for handling the UI logic of application. It generate the user 
interface for the user. View produce the ui output based on data which is collected by model 
component but this data is taken not direcly through the model but through controller 

3. Model:
it contain all the data related logic that the user works with. It add or retrive the data through the database.
It respond to the model request becuse model itself cannot interact with database, 
The model interacts with the database and gives the required data back to the controller.
It perform the CRUD operation

If we already have the DOM then why did we need React?
React create teh virtual DOM for itself.
Real Dom: It update the data slowly, can directly update the content of HTML,
DOM manipualtion is very expensive and memory wastage is high.

Virtual Dom:
it update the data faster, no memory wastage, Can't direcly update HTML 
also DOM manipulation is easy.

When ever the state change the Virtual DOM make the practical changes then perform the changes in the real Dom
It react when state change thats why its called React.

//INSTALLATION PROCESS//
1. Install the Node.js.
2. In the terminal run  npx create-react-app hello-world.
3. Want to run the go live server run: Go to the particular folder 
ls hello-world 
cd hello-world 
npm start
Inorder to create the new project follow these commands:
ls 
cd ../
npx create-react-app apna-cart
Inorder to create the components 
create a seperate folder with the name of components in src 

Types of components:
Class based(command cc) and functional (command rafce)


What is library?
We used library to write the code faster and also run the code faster. 

what is JSX?
Javascript syntax  Extension: Misture of javascript + html

What is hot reloading?
It is the fast reloading mechanism of react.

Two parents will rever return in jsx code so we create the <> </>, react fragment.

How can i pass the data in the component?
through props

setstate() -> it compare the changes in the virtual DOM and real DOM then make the changes and 
reflect the changes on the page

In the class component we pass this.props , this.state 